[`PEFT`] Peft integration alternative design (#25077)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/peft.md

<!--Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
⚠️ Note that this file is in Markdown but contain specific syntax for our doc-builder (similar to MDX) that may not be
rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.
-->

> # Load adapters with 🤗 PEFT

Reviewer: This'll let users run this as a notebook as well

```suggestion
# Load adapters with 🤗 PEFT

[[open-in-colab]]
```

[Parameter-Efficient Fine Tuning (PEFT)](https://huggingface.co/blog/peft) methods aim to fine-tune a pretrained model while keeping the number of trainable parameters as low as possible. This is achieved by freezing the pretrained model and adding a small number of trainable parameters (the adapters) on top of it. The adapters are trained to learn task-specific information. This approach has been shown to be very memory-efficient with lower compute usage while producing results comparable to a fully fine-tuned model. 

> Adapters trained with PEFT are also usually an order of magnitude smaller than the full model, making it convenient to share, store, and load them. In the image below, the adapter weights for a [`OPTForCausalLM`] model are stored on the Hub, and its weights are only ~6MB compared to the full size of the model weights, which can be ~700MB. 
> 
> <div class="flex justify-center">
>   <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/peft/PEFT-hub-screenshot.png"/>
> </div>

Reviewer: Might flow a little better to include the image description as a caption :)

```suggestion
Adapters trained with PEFT are also usually an order of magnitude smaller than the full model, making it convenient to share, store, and load them.

<div class="flex flex-col justify-center">
  <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/peft/PEFT-hub-screenshot.png"/>
  <figcaption class="text-center">The adapter weights for a OPTForCausalLM model stored on the Hub are only ~6MB compared to the full size of the model weights, which can be ~700MB.</figcaption>
</div>
```

If you're interested in learning more about the 🤗 PEFT library, check out the [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/peft/index).

## Setup

Get started by installing 🤗 PEFT:

```bash
pip install peft
```

If you want to try out the brand new features, you might be interested in installing the library from source:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/huggingface/peft.git
```

## Supported PEFT models

> We natively support some PEFT methods, meaning you can load adapter weights that are stored locally or on the Hub, run or train them with few lines of code very easily. The following table shows the PEFT methods we support:

Reviewer: Maybe move this paragraph after the image as part of the introduction to PEFT, and remove this section.

> We natively support some PEFT methods, meaning you can load adapter weights that are stored locally or on the Hub, run or train them with few lines of code very easily. The following table shows the PEFT methods we support:
> 
> - [Low Rank Adapters](https://huggingface.co/docs/peft/conceptual_guides/lora)
> - [IA3](https://huggingface.co/docs/peft/conceptual_guides/ia3)
> - [AdaLoRA](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.10512)
> 
> If you want to use other PEFT methods such as Prompt Learning or Prompt tuning, please refer to [the documentation of  🤗 PEFT library](https://huggingface.co/docs/peft/index).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
🤗 Transformers natively supports some PEFT methods, meaning you can load adapter weights stored locally or on the Hub and easily run or train them with a few lines of code. The following methods are supported:

- [Low Rank Adapters](https://huggingface.co/docs/peft/conceptual_guides/lora)
- [IA3](https://huggingface.co/docs/peft/conceptual_guides/ia3)
- [AdaLoRA](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.10512)

If you want to use other PEFT methods, such as prompt learning or prompt tuning, or about the 🤗 PEFT library in general, please refer to the [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/peft/index).
```

## Load a PEFT adapter

To load and use a PEFT adapter model from 🤗 Transformers, make sure the Hub repository or local directory contains an `adapter_config.json` file and the adapter weights, as shown in the example image above. Then you can load the PEFT adapter model using the `AutoModelFor` class. For example, to load a PEFT adapter model for causal language modeling:

1. specify the PEFT model id
2. pass it to the [`AutoModelForCausalLM`] class

```py
from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM, AutoTokenizer

peft_model_id = "ybelkada/opt-350m-lora"
model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(peft_model_id)
```

<Tip>

You can load a PEFT adapter with either an `AutoModelFor` class or the base model class like `OPTForCausalLM` or `LlamaForCausalLM`.

</Tip>

> You can also load a PEFT adapter by calling `load_adapter` method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also load a PEFT adapter by calling the `load_adapter` method:
```

```py
from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM, AutoTokenizer

model_id = "facebook/opt-350m"
peft_model_id = "ybelkada/opt-350m-lora"

model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(model_id)
model.load_adapter(peft_model_id)
```

## Load in 8bit or 4bit

> The `bitsandbytes` integration supports 8bit and 4bit precision data types, which are useful for loading large models because it saves memory (see the `bitsandbytes` integration [guide](./quantization#bitsandbytes-integration) to learn more). Add the `load_in_8bit` or `load_in_4bit` parameters to [`PreTrainedModel.from_pretrained`] and set `device_map="auto"` to effectively distribute the model to your hardware:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `bitsandbytes` integration supports 8bit and 4bit precision data types, which are useful for loading large models because it saves memory (see the `bitsandbytes` integration [guide](./quantization#bitsandbytes-integration) to learn more). Add the `load_in_8bit` or `load_in_4bit` parameters to [`~PreTrainedModel.from_pretrained`] and set `device_map="auto"` to effectively distribute the model to your hardware:
```

output = model.generate(**inputs)
```

## Train a PEFT adapter

PEFT adapters are supported by the [`Trainer`] class so that you can train an adapter for your specific use case. It only requires adding a few more lines of code. For example, to train a LoRA adapter:

<Tip>

If you aren't familiar with fine-tuning a model with [`Trainer`], take a look at the [Fine-tune a pretrained model](training) tutorial.

</Tip>

1. Define your adapter configuration with the task type and hyperparameters (see [`~peft.LoraConfig`] for more details about what the hyperparameters do).

```py
from peft import LoraConfig

peft_config = LoraConfig(
    lora_alpha=16,
    lora_dropout=0.1,
    r=64,
    bias="none",
    task_type="CAUSAL_LM",
)
```

2. Add adapter to the model.

```py
model.add_adapter(peft_config)
```

3. Now you can pass the model to [`Trainer`]!

```py
trainer = Trainer(model=model, ...)
trainer.train()
```

To save your trained adapter and load it back:

```py
model.save_pretrained(save_dir)
model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(save_dir)
```

<!--
TODO: (@younesbelkada @stevhliu)
-   Link to PEFT docs for further details
-   Trainer  
-   8-bit / 4-bit examples ?

> -->

Reviewer 2: Would be nice in a followup PR to add docs about training a model in 4/8-bit with peft and LoRA as there are many issues around this :-)

Author: Agreed on this!
